Ember New Lang (WIP) (#1)
hergaiety/rfcs: text/0000-ember-new-lang.md

  For default behavior, remove the flag.
  See `ember <command> help` for more information.
```

## How we teach this

1. Update the [Ember CLI API documentation](https://ember-cli.com/api/) to reflect the new flag.
2. Update the [Ember.js CLI Guides](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/basic-use/cli-commands/) to reflect the new flag much like we demonstrate `--yarn` usage.
3. Update the Ember CLI `--help` command so it explains what kind of value is expected to be passed to the `--lang` flag.
4. Update the Super Rental tutorial to include updated information.

### For the Ember CLI Guides:

The `--lang` flag can be used to set the spoken language of the app or addon.

To use with a language code only, this is the syntax that would be used: 

```bash
ember new my-app --lang en
```

To use with a language code and a region code:

```bash
ember new my-app --lang en-US
```

An error will be thrown if the country and region codes are incorrect. Additionally, helpful error text has been added in cases where the developer misunderstands the `--lang` flag and thinks that it is the programming language rather than the HTML attribute.

### As this relates to ember-intl

> The popular [localization library ember-cli](https://github.com/ember-intl/ember-intl) does not conflict with the addition of this new Ember CLI flag. The addition of this flag offers some out of the box support where it was previously missing for new Ember apps. It is still recommended that globalized apps leverage `ember-intl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The popular [localization library ember-intl](https://github.com/ember-intl/ember-intl) does not conflict with the addition of this new Ember CLI flag. The addition of this flag offers some out of the box support where it was previously missing for new Ember apps. It is still recommended that globalized apps leverage `ember-intl`.
```

- Start Date: (fill me in with today's date, YYYY-MM-DD)
- Relevant Team(s): (fill this in with the [team(s)](README.md#relevant-teams) to which this RFC applies)
- RFC PR: (after opening the RFC PR, update this with a link to it and update the file name)
- Tracking: (leave this empty)

# Ember New Lang

## Summary

Introduce `--lang` flag as an option for `ember new` within Ember-CLI. This will set the `lang` attribute on the html element. A `lang` attribute defines the language of an element or a document.

## Motivation

> This will in part address item 4 within issue https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/issues/595

Reviewer: We need to find a concise way to say here that this RFC does *not* intend to assume a default language, rather its aim is to lay the groundwork for a future interactive solution that prompts every ember user to start out of the gate with a language specified.

Author: Pushed up e66ba23, let me know what you think and feel free to make any adjustments directly you wish.

Author: (hah, typo fix in 61d6e3d)

> This RFC offers a partial resolution to [this related issue's issue #4](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/issues/595). This RFC explicitly does _not_ aim to add a default language, but instead aims to add tooling that offers users a way to specify a language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This RFC offers a partial resolution to technical accessibility issue 4 “Missing default language declaration” from the Ember A11y Strike Team’s [“Technical Accessibility Issues for New Ember Apps” list](https://github.com/emberjs/rfcs/issues/595). This RFC explicitly does _not_ aim to add a default language, but instead aims to add tooling that offers users a way to specify a language.
```

> -- <cite>[W3C - Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.1: Language of Page](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/language-of-page.html)</cite>

Having a page language specified should improve the user experience and technical improvements around these areas:

* Screen readers, braille translation software and similar technologies
* Captions with synchronized media (such as video subtitles)
* Correct dictionary lookups for translations
* Assisting search engines
* Improving typography in certain situations
* and more... [Source 1](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/html/H57) [Source 2](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/language-of-page.html) [Source 3](https://www.w3.org/TR/1999/REC-html401-19991224/struct/dirlang.html#adef-lang)

## Detailed design

> This is the bulk of the RFC.

> Explain the design in enough detail for somebody
familiar with the framework to understand, and for somebody familiar with the
implementation to implement. This should get into specifics and corner-cases,
and include examples of how the feature is used. Any new terminology should be
defined here.

## How we teach this

> The [Ember CLI API documentation](https://ember-cli.com/api/) should be updated to reflect the new flag.
> 
> We update the [Ember.js CLI Guides](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/basic-use/cli-commands/) to reflect the new flag much like we demonstrate `--yarn` usage.
> 
> The Ember CLI `--help` command should explain what kind of value is expected to be passed to the new flag.

Reviewer: Shall we format this section as an ordered list?

i.e.

```suggestion
1. Update the [Ember CLI API documentation](https://ember-cli.com/api/) to reflect the new flag.
2. Update the [Ember.js CLI Guides](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/basic-use/cli-commands/) to reflect the new flag much like we demonstrate `--yarn` usage.
3. Update the Ember CLI `--help` command so it explains what kind of value is expected to be passed to the `--lang` flag.
```

## Drawbacks

> More flags means more combinations of ways to run `ember new` which can be hard to test for and is potentially unsustainable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More flags means more combinations of ways to run `ember new` which can be hard to test for and is potentially unsustainable.

Users may be confused about whether they’re supposed to specify a human language or a programming language (i.e. `--language typescript`).
```
